Welcome back.
We have our list over here and we want to be able to run my linked list.
Reverse that will reverse this list for us.
Let's figure out the code here.
The first thing we want to do is to do a bit of a check.
Imagine if we only had one item in the list.
If there's one node or item in the list then well we don't need to really reverse it.
It's already there.
So if this list only contained one just return whatever we have for now.
So let's do that check here and we can just say if this dad had dot next and this exclamation mark means
doesn't exist.
I mean if this had done next if one is only one and it's not all this exclamation mark is going to turn
this into the opposite which the way javascript works will turn this into true.
And it's a little bit confusing but hopefully you're with me on that one.
All we're saying is if this is the only node and there's only a head note here.
I could also do this by checking the length and we have the length property.
So I could do something like this dot length is equal to one religious keep it the way it is for now
if there is only one element.
Just simply return this Dot had the node or we can just return this as well.
Otherwise let's get into the fun coding part.
The first thing we want to do is say we want to have the first item equals to this dot head and we're
just keeping track of it here.
So we're going to say that we now have a reference to this knothead And we also have a reference now
to the second item in the list.
So this is going to be first dot next.
So now that we have first and second we can do some looping.
We can say while the second node exists that is as long as second is not null.
So as long as that's happening we're going to create a temporary variable that holds second dot next
so we can actually call this third if we want but I'm choosing temp because this is going to change.
So we have a reference to first second and third.
So one 10 and 16 from here we can now say second dot next is going to equal the first element.
First is going to equal that second element and second this is going to equal the top element Oh my
what just happened here.
I know there was a lot of code without a lot of explanation but let's go through it line by line.
We're looping here after we've grabbed one and we grabbed 10 and now I'm going to say as long as this
second variable has a value and it's non-null it that not exist then I want you to create a temp variable
that holds 16 from there I'm going to grab that second done next which is the property inside of 10
and I'm going to say that to 10 is now going dewpoint.
So second on X is going to point to the first.
So 10 has an arrow pointing to one and the first variable which was the head now becomes 10 and the
second item becomes 16.
We've switched the pointers one to 10 now goes 10 to 1 and we switched the variables first and second
to now have 10 and 16 and we loop through and do the same thing where we have the pointer 10 to 16 reversed
so that 16 points to 10 and we changed a variable so that it's 16 and 18.
So we loop through this we loop through this we loop through this and then the final thing we need to
do is to say that this dad had because this thought had still has the value of 1 in it.
We're going to say that dot next is going to equal two.
No we're going to have one point to knowl and this dot head now is instead going to be the first and
remember by the time we loop through everything first becomes 88 and second becomes No.
So we are now changing at the very end 88 to be equal to the head.
And we also want to make sure that that tail is now one and the way we do that we have to go before
the while loop and see here that this dog had this first item should be the tail up.
So at the beginning before we do the loop the tail would become this dog had right.
I know that was confusing but let's see if that works.
This is one of those problems that you really have to dry it out and just by looking at this code it's
really hard for you to understand what's going on.
I recommend that you code this along and step by step perhaps console law to understand what's going
on.
If I reverse this list and click run I get undefined because we have to return something so let's return
return.
This got the print list wanting to run this.
All right.
Let me just make sure that we're reversing I'm going to comment it out.
So we have the original list 1 10 16 88 if we reverse it.
We have 88 16 10 and 1 and just for good measure instead of printing lists let's just return this year
so we get the entire linked list to make sure everything is working properly.
I have a linked list that has a head value of 88 and a tail value of 1.
Looks like it's working.
Awesome.
Good job getting this far.
And if you're able to understand this I think this is probably the most difficult concept to understand
in this entire course.
So if you're able to get this good job if not you might have to watch this video a couple times.
In the end and this is the beauty of programming all we're doing is logical steps and no matter what
language you use whether it's javascript like we did in this case the steps to create a linked list
are the exact same syntax may differ but the logic is the same.
I'll see in the next one.